###Design documents - Calchart Viewer

We'll design this app using the basic design process:

1. Outcome
2. Structure
3. Interaction
4. Visual

####Outcome

> Start with the intended outcome. What will the thing you're designing make easier or better for people? Most projects without a clearly defined intended outcome don't end well.

There are exactly three intended outcomes of this project:

1. Bandsmen will be able to step through a calchart show, beat by beat or stuntsheet by stuntsheet. They will be able to mark which dot they are.
2. Bandsmen will be able to step through a show, with music playing in the background. This should happen automatically, basically an amination of dots moving playing to the music in the background.
3. Bandsmen should be able to generate a printout of their continuities for a given show.

We should note that this entire application is focused on the VIEWERS of a show: that is, anyone who does not need to actually edit the show, but rather needs specific functinoality to view it more efficiently. We should keep this goal of "viewing efficiently" in mind throughout the entire process: everything in this project should be as smooth and as user friendly as possible, and if there's some feature that causes too much confusing, we should consider whether we really need it or not.

Another outcome that we should think about is focusing on code maintainability (and, as much as we can, testing too). Since presumably we're starting this project thinking that it will be iterated on by different people pretty much every year, so we should focus on writing good documentation so that new developers on the project won't have too high of a barrier to entry.

####Structure

> Next, design the system. Work out the required components to meet the intended outcome, and map relationships between them.

How the project should work is something like this: basically, we have two applications. One is the native Calchart app (native meaning, you install it on your computer) and the other is the viewer, which is web based. The native app is in charge of generating files - there are two kinds of files we need, here. One is a "viewer file", which contains information about the show: stuntsheets, dots, continuities, etc.

What we've been thinking is that the other is a "beat file", which simply contains information about when to transition from one beat to the next, based on some mp3 or midi file. This file would be generated by the Calchart native app, and would probably be "recorded" by a member of stunt. The idea is that if stunt distributes (1) the viewer file, (2) the beat file, and (3) the mp3 or midi file that the beat file was recorded with, then a bandsmen should have all they need to view the show effectively.

Some required components of the actual web app:

1. Menu bar and dialog for uploading files, possibly saving them in local storage for later.
2. Canvas/animation area for viewing the actual dots moving. This should probably be implemented in svg with d3, though other options are canvas (maybe not idea since we have to draw every time, and with svg we can just move elements around).
3. Functionality to generate a pdf given a viewer file and a dot. We can use a free/open source library like jspdf ([http://parall.ax/products/jspdf](http://parall.ax/products/jspdf)) for this. This could just be a button at the bottom of the page which becomes clickable when the user selects a dot.

Seeing as there will be a lot of js infrastructure here, we should probably use [requirejs](http://requirejs.org/). I'm on the fence for whether to use [angular](http://angularjs.org/) but honestly it seems like a bit of over complication, especially since some of the people working on this probably aren't very familiar with web dev. Maybe we can add this in later, and just use d3.


####Interaction

> After the outcome and the system are figured out, design the interaction details. What are the microinteractions? The sequences of behavior and events? What are the UI components and how will people interact with or naipulate them? How will things move, change, or animate? Revisit the system, evolve it to match the interactions. Keep iterating.

Some interactions:

1. Uploading the files. We shold keep track of what files we have at any time, and should enable musical playback if we have a music file and a beat file. The interface should be pretty simple, I think: just three columns, one for each file, will be fine.
2. Stepping through the show without music: this should be possible through clicking on buttons or tapping arrow keys.
3. Stepping through a show with music: Simply a button to play, if we have all the right files.
4. Generating continuity: this should just be a button

####Visual

> Once the outcome, system and interactions are well defined and working (ideally prototyped), design the visual details. Make it look and feel beautiful, enjoyable. Now it's time for buitiful grids, colour, typography, iconography.

See `design` directory.